---
title: "Post 0 | Hello World"
image: "/assets/images/Post-0.png"
tags: [Cyber-Awareness, CyberMaya, cybersecurity, Infosec]
categories: Blog
---
# Hello World

As in the world of digital era, the first post, the first command that anyone learns in the computer coding is "Hello World". This is my "Hello World!"

“Whoami”? I have written that down in the About section.

## About the blog – Cyber Maya.

Cybermaya
मायायाम् अभिध्यायाम् (Mayayam Abhidhyayam)
Translation: “In the illusion, lies the intent.”
Tagline: “In Cyber’s Illusion, Lies Truth.”

Maya (माया) in Sanskrit often refers to “illusion” or “magic.” In philosophical contexts, it’s used to describe the illusory nature of the world, suggesting that what we perceive is not always the ultimate reality.

By combining “Cyber” with “Maya,” I would like to bring the illusory and complex nature of the digital realm. I am attempting to imply that the digital world, much like the concept of Maya, is not always what it seems on the surface. There might be hidden threats, deceptions, and complexities that one needs to navigate, much like the philosophical challenges posed by Maya.

“CyberMaya” being catchy, memorable, and carries depth in its meaning, especially for those familiar with Indian philosophy, I thought would be a better choice for a blog with the aims to delve deep into the intricacies of cybersecurity while resonating with the readers.

With this, Post 0, I believe the expectations are set on what readers can expect from the blog content.

Cheers & Happy Reading!