---
title: "Post 1 | Beyond Passwords: The Human Element in Cybersecurity"
image: "/assets/images/Post-1.png"
tags: [Cybersecurity Awareness, CyberMaya]
categories: Blog
---

We’ve all heard the term ‘cybersecurity’ thrown around, especially in recent times. But strip away the tech talk, and what’s left? The human stories, the personal choices, and the everyday decisions that shape our online safety. This blog isn’t about overwhelming you with technical details. It’s about understanding the simple yet profound ways we, as individuals, interact with the digital world. From the young adult setting up their first email account to the grandparent video-calling their grandkids, cybersecurity touches us all. Dive in as we explore the human heart of the digital realm.

# Digital Security: The Choices We Make

When it comes to the digital realm, two main elements stand out – Security and Privacy.

Security, at its core, is about protection. Imagine your home. You lock the doors, maybe have an alarm system, and ensure windows are shut tight when you’re away. Why? To protect everything and everyone inside from potential harm. Similarly, in the digital world, ‘Security’ is about putting up barriers, locks, and alarms to protect our data, our identities, and our peace of mind from potential threats. It’s about ensuring that our digital ‘home’ is as safe as our physical one.

Now, with the sheer volume of awareness ads and messages from banks and brokers, I’d wager you’ve already taken some steps towards ‘Security’. But here’s the thing: It’s one thing to see or hear about these security tips, and another to truly understand and put them into practice. So, while we can appreciate the efforts of these awareness campaigns, let’s ensure we’re not just going through the motions. Instead, let’s delve deeper into some key awareness points that can truly make a difference in our digital journey.
- **Awareness 01:** Keep your Passwords simple (for you to remember) but complex.
- **Awareness 02:** When something is too good to be true, its mostly a scam. e.g. Winning a lottery, free holiday vacation, free amazon delivery.
- **Awareness 03:** Avoid connecting your mobile in public places or while travelling. Prefer carrying a power bank.
- **Awareness 04:** while clicking on any link, just check the first part – “https” is present and the last part, which is called as the domain, if it is “.com”. No doubt there can be other legitimate domains but always be cautious.
- **Awareness 05:** While doing online transactions, try as much as possible,
    to use a Credit Card, as most of the credit card these days come with Online Fraud, Cyber Fraud Insurance coverage. If you are someone who does not use a Credit Card, use a single account which has a limited amount. Make use of NEFT as much as possible.
- **Awareness 06:** Regarding bank cards – Debt or Credit, make active use of the Purchase Limit. Unless you are travelling internationally, disable the international payments.

These are a few you must be already aware of and there are many other such. In my future blogs I will write a sperate dedicated coverage on Awareness and more.

# Digital Privacy: More Than Just Keeping Secrets

While many of us diligently lock our homes and cars, we often leave our digital lives open for intrusion. Why is that? Especially in India, the concept of ‘Privacy’ often takes a backseat. This isn’t just about cultural nuances like our joint family system or the age-old adage of ‘What is there to hide?’. It’s a deeper issue rooted in misconceptions and lack of awareness.

In many western cultures, privacy is a cherished value, often seen as a fundamental right. In contrast, in India, the emphasis on collective over individual often means personal boundaries, both physical and digital, are blurred.

But here’s the crux: Privacy isn’t about hiding; it’s about protecting. It’s about safeguarding our most intimate thoughts, feelings, and data from prying eyes. Think of it this way: You have the right to freedom, which includes the freedom to think and feel without the obligation to share those thoughts and feelings with the world.

To illustrate, let me share a personal observation. My own parents, like many from their generation, often overlook the importance of online privacy. They’ve casually shared phone numbers at grocery store billing counters, given out their Aadhaar details without a second thought, and often remarked, ‘Who’s going to hack us? We have nothing to hide.’ But it’s not just about hiding or keeping things private; it’s about understanding the vast landscape of data we’re part of every day. Every time we share a phone number, click on a link, or even use a voice assistant, we’re contributing to a digital footprint. This footprint can be benign, or it can be used in ways we never intended, from targeted ads to more malicious intents like identity theft. It’s not about having something to hide; it’s about having control over what we choose to share and what remains private. As we navigate the digital world, it’s crucial to understand that privacy is our shield. It’s what stands between our personal data and potential cyber threats. And as we’ll explore in the next post, the consequences of overlooking privacy can be dire…

# Take Away Summary

In today’s digital age, where every click, share, and interaction leaves a footprint, understanding the nuances of security and privacy becomes paramount. It’s not just about the tech-savvy individuals or those with something to hide; it’s about each one of us. As we’ve explored, the choices we make and the information we choose to share (or not share) can have far-reaching consequences. It’s a journey of awareness, understanding, and proactive steps. And while the digital landscape may seem vast and intimidating, with the right knowledge and tools, we can navigate it safely and confidently.

If you found this post insightful, please consider sharing it with your friends and family. Awareness is the first step towards a safer digital experience. And stay tuned for our next post where we’ll dive deeper into the world of ‘Digital Identity Theft’ and how you can safeguard yourself.